---
title: vox
date: 2017-06-05 21:45:00 Z
tags:
- visual design
- early product exploration
alt-title: voxdotcom
images:
- vox-home-page-mobile.png
- vox-home-page.png
- vox-article-page-mobile.png
- vox-article-page.png
- vox-storystream-page-mobile.png
- vox-storystream-page.png
layout: page
---

In early 2013 vox media partnered with Ezra Klein and Melissa Bell to help build the future of news. This was one of my first projects I worked on at vox media and was one of the most rewarding and hectic experiences I’ve had here. It was a super fast 6 week project from start to finish that was built off the base of another one of vox media’s networks to give this a jump start (this also launched discussions of a platform unification called unison). During the project, I was primarily involved with the homepage and things that would engage the users to “eat their vegetables” (in Ezra’s words), where we would encourage rabbit holing information so people would consume less exciting topics to get context for bigger stories.

<!--more-->

### High Level Goals
- What does the future of news look like
- How to engage users to read additional context in addition to breaking news
- What can we do differently as a web publication

### Six weeks to launch
The project kicked off rapidly and was heavily based off of another network vox media owned (sb nation) this let us iterate fast and put laser focus into things we cared about exploring since it lowered the barrier engineering wise and freed people up to work on features we wanted to implement that were not apart of the core sb nation codebase.

We took this and focused our work around the homepage and easy findability of topics along with something called explainers, which were card based information bundles that were tagged and linked into articles so people could deep dive into digestible facts about topics for additional context and information.

Due to all the affordances of being smart about resources we quickly launched voxdotcom as an experiment with iteration in mind and vox has exploded to be one of our top performing networks.

### Fun Fact
The colors for voxdotcom were derived from an untitled Rothko painting consisting of greys, blues and yellows.

### Lessons Learned
- Working fast and letting assumptions be wrong is a very fun way to see what the audience likes and doesn't like
- Learning what to and what not to stress over due to a highly compressed timeline.
- How to build on existing work in order to iterate and build something stronger and the inherent weaknesses and strengths in not beginning at the start line on a project.
